# Deep-Learning-Viscous-Strain
This repository contains my scientific project to make use of deep learning algorithms in Python to predict the viscous behaviour of a 1D material.
There are some files that I cannot upload due to their enormous size.

Let us start:
1. File: Data_Generation_0.ipynb 
To train our deep learning model, we need training data. We generate the data using the notebook Data_Generation_0.ipynb.
You need to initialise your system by inputting the necessary material parameters and constants related to loading procedures.
You also need to set which strains are possible (to limit the infinite continuous variable space).
Then you can save the training dataset, which will be used in the next notebook.
This solution dataset is automatically generated by using the known (discrete) solution of a Kelvin-Voigt material.
The exact solution can be checked here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kelvin%E2%80%93Voigt_material.

2. File: deep_learning_training_1D.ipynb
Now, we train our machine learning model. In the example provided, I use the feed forward neural network algorithm (FFNN).
We need the following input and output from our previous dataset:
  Input: total strain at present, total strain at future, viscous strain at future --> x
  Output: viscous strain at future, total stress at future --> y
Then we split the solution dataset into training and test.

Important takeaway: training and testing dataset have different dimensions according to the model you want to train.
Here, I only provided the example for FFNN with 3 input variables and 2 variables to be predicted.

We define our deep learning model and optimise the hyperparameters using the keras tuner library.
Then, we can evaluate the accuracy of our model by comparing to the test dataset. We can also save the optimised model and the predicted result.
In the next notebook, we can validate the model's accuracy, also with extrapolated strain values.

3. File: extrapolation_validation_1D.ipynb
In the validation notebook, I provided 3 model examples: FFNN-1, FFNN-2, and RNN (recurrent neural network)
Please note that the performance of FFNN-2 is much worse because I only train FFNN-2 model with limited variables (unlike FFNN-1 and RNN)
The complete dataset is also not uploaded here because of size constraints.
Key takeaway: FFNN-1 and RNN can be used to extrapolate to strain ranges outside the training dataset.
You can compare the solution and the predicted values.
